---
author: ellen
categories:
- World of Warcraft
date: 2017-11-05T00:00:00Z
title: Kil'jaeden the Deceiver
url: /2017/11/05/kj/
---

The last few weeks of raiding have been mostly filled with progress on Kil'jaeden. And slowly I am getting slightly frustrated and strangely enough, bored, with this boss. The fight requires a decent amount of attention though not quite on the levels of Mistress or Maid however everything just happens over such a long span of time that actually getting to the part we're progressing on is gettign frustrating.

That all is slightly strange, because at the start when almost nothing was happening as we were progressing phase one, I was actually quite enjoying the boss. Now slowly however, phase one and the intermission are becoming frustrating slogs while waiting for the interesting part to arrive. It kind of reminds me of the healer challenge: the beginning is by no means trivial, but at some point quite easily doable once one knows how it goes, however having to keep redoing it to get to progress gets really frustrating at some point. That's the thing I'm currently experienceing with Kil'jaeden, frustration at having to keep redoing the "boring" parts and consequently at times making simple mistakes.

A perfect example of this was once getting hit by one of the orbs from the adds in phase one due quite simply forgetting to even think about dodging because I was so ready for the phase to be over.

I realize these things are a part of raiding and a part of what makes these bosses difficult to execute properly, an endurance check in a sense. However being in the middle of progress on such a boss can be frustrating at times.

Seeing past that though, I think I actually enjoy the fight. I'm not overly keen on the knockback orbs spawning in the middle essentially being a timing check for one dispeller in the raid, but in general the knockback mechanic can be quite fun and gives opportunities to make life saving Leaps of Faith which I appreciate. Phase two is also quite interesting, though the healer adds feel slightly frustrating as I feel I can't properly contribute there. Maybe worth looking into Apotheosis which should give a significant increase in burst heal for those adds, though we seem to be handling the adds rather well for the most part so probably not necessary.

Right now though, I'm just hoping that we actually manage to kill the boss in time, since it seems Antorus is arriving on the 29th and that's not a whole lot of time for us. Sure, it's still three weeks that we're probably extending the ID, but even then it might end up being tight. All of that also assumes I don't get benched, would naturally very much like to be there for the kill. I'm sure it'll end up being fine, but it's a bit of extra pressure that I didn't need. Especially considering it makes the deadline for getting 75 traits apparent.