---
title: "Imonar and more"
date: 2018-01-03T21:48:08+02:00
---

Before Christmas we had one last progress raid and we got to poke at Imonar a bit. While we sadly didn't get that far, there was one thing that slightly surprised me about the fight even though it probably should've been obvious from heroic already, namely the intermission. It's a surprising pain as a healer, as it doesn't really afford for any time to keep healing since you kind of need to just run through yet the group is taking decent damage from all the explosions going on (we at least opted to trigger several of the mines in order to allow people to get through, with the tanks doing the triggering).

That will be an interesting phase to get to learn and so far seems to be the biggest challenge of the fight, though as noted we didn't get far, only to the beginning of the third phase. Optimizing movement in general seems to be a theme in this raid, it's also quite present in Antoran High Command with the mines there, Eonar seems to be nothing but movement and barely any healing, there's a rather decent amount of movement to be done on the dogs already if one has the fire debuff.

Looking forward at future bosses as well, Kin'garoth continues the theme with a rather spread out raid and both the orbs and beam to dodge. Varimathras has some movement sure, but it seems to be rather trivial and from what I know does not coincide with any damage spikes so shouldn't really present any problems. The Shivarra seem to be more about positioning than movement specifically. Aggramar might also be interesting in that aspect, as the intermissions already do a decent amount of damage on heroic while also having things one needs to dodge, making it difficult to reliably use cooldowns (as a Priest at least).

I guess the raid might have more promise than I thought, but that might be down to the guild I'm in as well though to be fair, Christmas and New Years probably have something to do with our slow progress, getting only two proper raid days in in the last couple of weeks. Hopefully we keep progressing well and I get to be part of that progress, much less fun to come in on already killed bosses.