---
categories:
    - World of Warcraft
author: ellen
title: Patch 7.3.5 is kind of broken
date: 2018-01-20T00:33:51+02:00
---

So Wednesday came the patch, and with it a few cool things like the remade leveling experience---though even that seems to be somewhat broken. Like the rest of the game. There were several bugs introduced into Legion dungeons and raids, among them the spy event in Court of Stars sometimes just kind of leading to the mob standing there, not moving. The beams on Hasabel in Antorus are also broken, sometimes the graphic stays on the floor. In addition to that, Antorus seems to suffer from lag and FPS problems in general, which has led to very poor performance in our raid so far. We ended up canceling the raid about halfway through on Wednesday and it took several tries for us to kill Hasabel. The lag problems seem to have slightly improved, the general performance problems remain. Seems like this week will be mostly wasted from a raiding perspective---sadly---though there is another extended maintenance coming on Saturday. Hopefully the situation improves with that and we get at least one proper raid day.

There was also some talk about potentially having an extra raid day on Monday, will have to see what comes of that. On one hand, it would hopefully be a chance to get some more progress done and maybe even kill Kin'garoth finally. At the same time, having Monday "free" and not having to think about raiding and being able to concentrate on mythic+ instead might also be rather nice. But if there's progress to be done I'm eager to be there.

In better news, it seems I have found a new guild. The guild is Horde which is good as that means I'll be able to play with a few good friends of mine again---though it pains me to not be a Night Elf anymore. Hopefully that will mean more progressing and less frustration while raiding, just need to make sure I can keep up. That's always the most stressful thing with joining a new guild for me---trying to prove oneself, both to oneself and to the guild. What it will definitely mean though is me being able to do mythic+ since I now have a few good reliable damage dealers available again and hopefully a few new ones through the guild. It will be really nice to get to do mythic+ again, though there has been a bit more mythic+ activity in recent times, sadly not so much of the interesting variety of actually properly pushing keys and more just upgrading a key or two a few times and then stopping before anything interesting appears.

There is still a small questionmark with all of this however, as I have an application to another guild open still and I'm not quite sure what I'd do if both guilds end up being interested. The guild I'm currently headed to has the nicer raid days but also slightly worse---or rather, slower---progress. Part of that might be in the raid days as the other guild does raid a bit more. 

It's a decision I might not have to make and I'm currently somewhat unsure which way I'm leaning. I do think I might stay with the current option because of the raid times. At the moment three raid days rather than four and something along the lines of 40% less hours just seems to compelling. The progress difference also seems really small with that difference in mind. Though the group impacts how enjoyable the raids are a lot more than the amount of time invested, it's still a rather big consideration. It's also rather impossible to figure out ahead of time how well one will end up liking one group or the other, so the times end up weighing a lot more. But I'll get to that decision when and if it ends up being necessary.