---
author: ellen
title: Sometimes Vanilla tastes better
---
So I did end up freezing my subscription again and it'll run out on the 26th though I doubt I'll be logging in before that. In the end what solidified it for me was dabblinga bit with a private Vanilla server again and noticing how much more fun the game felt even with all its flaws. It's odd noticing how years of further development haven't really successfully added all that much that would motivate me to play and rather conversely succeeded in taking some of those motivating factors away.

Anyway, I had played on this server before back in spring with a few friends, I rolled a priest (obviously). But then summer came and as usual put a bit of a damper on my gaming and I didn't end up returning immediately during fall. Now though I've made somewhat of a more casual comeback, playing a bit at a time every few days and it's been quite fun. A bit of questing and a Sunken Temple run is all I've managed so far, though now it's looking like I'll have to start doing some more serious dungeoneering as quests are starting to seem somewhat scarce. Though that's probably a wise move anyways, as the dungeons are starting to drop gear that'll be relevant at 60 anyway so I can gear and level up simultaneously.

As of yet I've no ambitions when it comes to raiding, mostly due to not being sure how much time I'm willing and able to dedicate to scheduled gaming. Hopefully I'll have time for something, the server does seem to have a rather active raiding community so finding a guild shouldn't be that much of a problem. Especially considering healers are usually in demand, though I'm not overly familiar with the class distribution on this server.

In the end I'll probably check Legion out as well, though as usual it'll probably be mostly to see the leveling experience and checking out the dungeons a few times. Sure, maybe I'll poke my head in to LFR as well, but eh, it doesn't really seem all that interesting. Might as well watch some of the livestreams for that.
