---
author: ellen
title: Raiding progress (or lack thereof)
---
There's been little progress since my [last update]({% post_url 2015-09-16-levelled %}). No further raids have happened so far, though there is one scheduled for tonight though only with two people signed up. I've made decent progress on the Talon Queen title, needing only ~3000 more reputation & I'll be getting around 2000 from tomorrow's Heroic Skyreach. As the dungeon event is ending, I'll probably end up grinding the rest of the reputation out in the world as I haven't bothered putting together a group for the Mythic variant of Skyreach yet and probably won't end up doing that before the event is over.

I would be interested in starting to do some Mythic dungeons though and did attempt Skyreach once with a guild group after one of the failed raid attempts. It seemed like they could be a lot of fun, as there seems to be a bit of challenge left especially as we went in with the bare minimum of item level recommended. Sadly, we did not seem to have sufficient DPS at the time and the group disbanded after a few wipes on the first boss, though the trash went rather well. It seems it would be preferrable to find DPS in the 20,000+ range, which somehow doesn't seem overly common as observed in guild runs & LFG Heroics. Obviously anecdotal, but still.

* * *

I have had a tad of time to think about what I want from raiding though and it seems to be simply to get to raid "properly", i.e. not in LFR & not PUG. I've noticed I don't really care for the gearing aspect all that much, as it seems much of the prestige at least I associate with it is gone. So simply getting to experience the raids (hopefully starting with Highmaul as I haven't raided at all this expansion) would be awesome. This is probably also why I've been so lukewarm on many of the more recent expansions, the simple matter that I haven't really been raiding in them. Sure, I disagee with some of the changes Blizzard has made in them as well, but not participating in the content that gives me most enjoyment in the game is more probably the root cause.

This, however makes my situation somewhat awkward. As I'm not overly eager at finding new guilds & the attempts at getting raids together in my current guild fail, seeing what way to proceed becomes somewhat difficult. I'm hoping I can simply stay with the current guild as it does seem to have some rather nice people in it, though if raiding doesn't start happening I sadly won't be able to. Finding a new guild might be hard because I'd actually like to go back and clear the "old" raids, though that might happen in some sort of alt run. Finding a guild at this stage of the expansion when you're not overly geared however isn't all that simple. Most guilds seem to be expecting HFC experience & gear, neither of which I have. Joining a newly founded guild might simply leave me in the same situation I'm now, waiting for there to be sufficient raiders.

So matters are not as simple as they might seem, sadly.