---
author: ellen
title: Kil'jaeden down!
category: World of Warcraft
---

This post is acutally quite late as we already killed him on Wednesday, however I figured it was still worth making. So indeed, Kil'jaeden finally down after some 300+ wipes and now we finally get a small breather before Antorus comes out. Well, kind of, since we are hopefully re-killing Kil'jaeden before Antorus comes out to give the people that didn't have the chance to be there an opportunity to get the achievement. I will be sorely disappointed if we don't manage that.

As for the fight itself, well there's not really [much for me to add](/2017/11/05/kj.html). Sure, I hadn't played the second intermission yet at the time of the last post, but that one went over so quickly there's hardly anything to say about it and phase three was really a mechanics check for one to two players who were responsible for the orbs or looking for safe spots from the obelisks. For the rest, it was just a DPS and HPS race. That's not to say the phase is trivial, it is however quite a lot simpler than phase two and we really didn't have a lot of wipes in phase three once we started to consistently get there.

All in all, it's a fight that seems to mostly test patience due to the length. Sure, there are timing challenges with the orbs especially for slower classes that don't have means of ignoring the mechanic, but those are somewhat easy to overcome with practice. I am still rather content with the fight, though it's not exactly my favourite and I do also have to say, as we were more consistenly getting into phase three the fight actually came a lot easier to bear since it started feeling like the fight was progressing rather quickly. This due to there almost always being something happening that needed ones attention, if not now then in a few seconds. That did definitely add some intensity to the fight later on. It is by far not as punishing as something like Maiden, which is probably a good thing as it allows for more training to be done each try.