---
categories:
    - World of Warcraft
author: ellen
title: Leveling complete
date: 2018-04-26T03:09:07+03:00
---

So I managed to reach 110 with my Death Knight on Tuesday, which was before the reset meaning I had a nice 960 item waiting for me in my Order Hall today since we also managed to do a quick +15 key for me and the other level 110 in our leveling group. Unfortunately I got a ring which feels like it would be a somewhat small upgrade compared to one of the major slots like chest or legs but was still nice, I believe the stats are at least decent as well though I do need to poke into Blood Death Knights a bit more in order to confirm that. To be fair, I already have a 950 chest I got from the weekly for doing four mythic dungeons, so maybe a ring wasn't that unlucky.<!--more-->

Unfortunately two out of four in our leveling group of four did not manage to get to 110 in time, hopefully today or tomorrow at the latest so we can get to doing some dungeons. We have been planning to do a bit of lowbie dungeons, potentially starting with running just plain mythic dungeons for gear and then mythic+ afterwards. Might end up starting with mythic+ immediately since it's so easy to get gear at this point, especially with I believe most of us having some of those Argus tokens stacked up somewhere.

Beyond that, there was something of a nice surprise this week---even though I had heard rumblings about it earlier---with the second mythic+ affix being changed from necrotic to volcanic. That will make this week quite a lot more manageable than before even though trash will still remain relatively painful with teeming and tyrannical is generally quite a huge spike in the general difficulty---much bigger than fortified. Still I think it should be a pretty nice week for getting started with the new characters since fortified doesn't become a big problem until higher keystones and all of the other affixes are quite manageable.

For now though I'm just happy to be done with leveling for now because while it was fun doing it in a group the last few levels were a bit annoying since we decided to split up which led to me having to level alone a bitwhich isn't the most engaging thing as a tank. Overall the leveling experience was rather educational since we ended up doing some more unorthodox tactics that I was unaware of---namely trash farming in Karazhan and Tol'vir. This was possible thanks to the buff given from outleveling content inteded to make old raids and whatnot still soloable with the stat squish that came in Warlords.

It worked strangely well in those two places, other dungeons and raids not so much. We did try some of the Wrath of the Lich King raids but unfortunately those were not worth farming as they always presented some sort of problem---examples being the debuff that heals mobs when dealing damage in the Obsidian Sanctum or just how plain hard the trash was in Ruby Sanctum. Naxxramas and Icecrown just didn't seem worth it on the basis of experience gained. We didn't really end up trying the Cataclysm raids since we already had Tol'vir available and that worked rather well.

Finally with Warlords we---though I suppose this is more common knowledge---farmed the treasures and bonus objecties of the zones rather than questing. They went rather quickly once everyone was the appropriate level---we tried starting already at 88-89 but we couldn't loot the treasure and the mobs were already rather dangerous---and were rather easy sailing, would definitely recommend for people planning to level especially in a group since the bonus objectives are so quick to complete. Having a group and being on voice comms also helps quite a lot with the boredom that can creep in while doing such farm focused tasks which is also nice---I'm not sure I would've done this whole leveling adventure if I was alone, I probably wouldn't even have started it.

Now I guess I just need to wait for everyone to get to 110 and then we can start doing some dungeons which I'm really looking forward to---get to properly tank a bit again.