---
categories:
    - World of Warcraft
author: ellen
title: Pre-patch, druids and guilds
date: 2018-07-13T20:23:48+03:00
---
There's actually a surprising amount going on lately, much of which I haven't written here about. To be fair some of that stuff is fairly recent, like the [recent confirmation that the pre-patch is coming next week](https://worldofwarcraft.com/en-gb/news/21952591#1) which is something of a big incoming change that I feel didn't have a lot of official notice. I mean, it's already Friday as we learned, which means that the patch is coming in less than a week. That feels like really short notice for something that so significantly changes the game. To be fair, it was somewhat foreshadowed [with them saying the PVP season will end soon](https://worldofwarcraft.com/en-gb/news/21931802) and with it being four weeks before the expansion launch, it can't end up being much later.<!--more-->

## Pre-patch
So let's talk about the pre-patch a bit more in detail. I'm excited to see it coming even though I am miffed about some of the changes, since that will be the first feel for many of how Battle for Azeroth will play out. Now I have been poking a tiny bit at the beta myself, but a lot of people don't have access to that. Of course we will be missing the new artifact along with the azerite armor, but all of the skill changes along with the loss of our artifact weapon are coming with the pre-patch. This will give a good opportunity for people---me included---to familiarize themselves with the class changes in preparation for Battle for Azeroth. I'm also kind of excited since this means I'll be able to raid with the new talents and so on, and while those aren't balanced around 110 content it'll still give some indication how the end-game will feel like. 

It's also a good opportunity for me to maybe start taking some bigger pokes at Discipline, a spec I've so far pretty much completely avoided playing. I'm not conviced I'll hugely enjoy playing Discipline but with the level of raiding I seem to be going to do with Battle for Azeroth it feels it makes sense at least being familiar with my second healing spec even if it's not my first choice. I just hope that doesn't end up with me pidgeonholed into playing Discipline the whole time.

There is one change that makes me sligthly miffed about the pre-patch coming though, namely the removal of master loot. Now I'm not sure I'm a huge fan of this change in general but it seems to be one we have to live with. But why it specifically bothers me, is that we are still in the process of trying to get the mount from Argus to players who participated or were in the guild during progress and have received some new recruits along with promotions to raider since then. This change now means that some of our raiders who contributed to the boss actually being downed might end up being out of luck and some person we aren't even sure we want to keep in the guild might end up getting it. This is one of those situations I feel makes it a big mistake for Blizzard to force this change upon guilds.

## Druids
Or rather, one specific druid, namely my twink. So a month or so ago by now I ended up boosting a druid for myself to 110 in order to have something to play for our planned split-raids. We are going to be doing split-raids to be able to get everyone the mount in time before the launch of Battle for Azeroth. Now as mentioned above we'll have to see how that turns out with the loot change, but hopefully it all ends well.

Playing a druid has been an interesting experience so far and has given me a somewhat new found appreciation of why they were so popular for mythic+ during Legion and that reason is rather simple: I'm already surviving abilities without cooldowns that my priest would die to without cooldowns. I mean minor cooldows or trinkets, sure, but priests don't have very many of those to go around especially if one gets unlucky and Desperate Prayer decides not to reset its cooldown. This really makes me hope they get the balancing around not only throughput but survivability and utility down much better in Battle for Azeroth since it kind of sucks being somewhat excluded from a major part of the game that is my favourite part of the game along with raiding. Mythic+ is probably one of the big things that has made me play and kept me subscribed throughout Legion and seeing first-hand how broken the balance is makes me somewhat frustrated. It might even end up with me making my druid my "mythic+ main" which would be a really sad turn of events. I'm also not sure how viable that strategy is with the changes to the druid talents which I feel makes healing mythic+ as a druid significantly harder, though I have no actual experience of those changes yet.

## Guilds
Now there is one final strange thing that actually happened just a few days ago: I ended up being contacted by one of the guilds I [applied to way back when]({{< relref "/post/2017/gildensuche.md" >}}). Now this puts me in a rather interesting situation, since I wasn't really looking to change guilds and I kind of hate doing it. It is with some sadness I counted that this would be my fifth guild change during Legion which feels like a ton. Now two of those were leaving at the time basically dead guilds which is of course justified and a third was due to some rather heavy disagreement with the leadership of some decision being taken---I also wasn't the only person leaving. So while it is all rather justifiable and it is a game after all where the primary purpose is to enjoy one's time which does mean being in a group one enjoys playing with and has similar goals, it still feels somewhat wrong for that number to be ending up so high.

At the same time, I had hoped for this outcome since I know some people in the guild and would be very happy to be able to raid with those people again. This is why I made the decision to at least go forward by expressing interest in their offer. Nothing is final yet and they still have some internal discussion to do along with probably a interview with me to do assuming everything goes well, but I'm feeling really good about the direction this all is going in. It's also something of a win-win scenario for me, since even if they don't end up taking me in I'm rather happy where I am now and having to think about this potential change of guilds has really solified that feeling for me since I have at times been unsure how well I like the guild and now I feel certain that I enjoy raiding here and will be happy with either outcome---changing guilds or staying put---and that is obviously a rather good position to be in.