---
categories:
    - World of Warcraft
author: ellen
title: Reputation
date: 2018-08-21T23:12:33+03:00
---
So I mentioned some of my [frustrations with reputation in Battle for Azeroth in my previous post]({{< relref "post/2018/bfa.md#reputation" >}}) and I think my feelings might've changed somewhat. This I think comes primarily from the vastly different nature of reputation in Battle for Azeroth compared to Legion.<!--more-->

Now, there is still a primary very important faction to get repuation with, this being the Honorboud for the Horde and Seventh Legion for the Alliance since these factions gate a dungeon behind them. What is significantly different from Legion however, is the pure amount of world quests available for these factions along with the speed one gets reputation. In Legion, getting the Suramar dungeons unlocked was something of a significant farm whereas in Battle for Azeroth, I only really started poking at the world quests on Thursday and was done by Sunday or Monday. This significant shortening of the farm naturally leads to it being much less annoying than it was in Legion. This also significantly helps because I think a big source of my frustration with this system came from the uncertainty of me being able to do the dungeon in a timely fashion[^1] and now once that stress has been lifted I am also less frustrated with the system itself.

There is also another significant factor to this that I did note in my earlier post, specifically having something to do. In the past couple of days I've found myself simply doing every single world quest available just from the continued desire to keep playing the game and trying to find something sensible to do within the game and the world quests have presented the perfect outlet for that. This has allowed me to even surpass the required reputation for the dungeon and actually finish the War Campaign, well for now at least. The game and the quests themselves do state that it will be continued[^2], but this chapter is finished for now. So me being motivated enough to be doing the world quests somewhat unrelated to the rewards they bring kind of negates the whole frustration I might've felt with having felt forced to be doing them. Well it isn't strictly true that I'm doing them regardless of reward, since completing the world quests is bringing me closer to [Pathfinder, Part One](https://www.wowdb.com/achievements/12989-battle-for-azeroth-pathfinder-part-one)[^3] which will allow me to ride faster and eventually be a part of the flying requirements. But the biggest stopper on that achievement will be the Champions of Azeroth which have a very limited amount of world quests available anyway that I would definitely be doing every day so it isn't really getting me the achievement any faster.

In the end, this is kind of a long way of saying I was stressing out and worrying about things that ended up being fine in the end. Though there is somewhat of a sad end to the story after all: we'll have to look for one additional player in order to complete Siege of Boralus in the first reset, since one of us hasn't been doing barely any world quests and is unfortunately not going to have the required reputation in order to participate. It is an unfortunate situation but considering the requirements were known we can't really blame the game for it but it still feels bad that he can't experience the dungeon with us.

[^1]: Specifically, being able to do the dungeon in the first reset it is possible to do it and consequently not feeling left behind.
[^2]: There's even a literal "To be continued" marker in the quest log in the War Campaign box.
[^3]: As an complete aside, I usually use Wowhead since I play with the German client and WoWDB only seems to support English from what I can tell, but Wowhead was down while I was writing this post and I consequently decided to link to WoWDB. Funny how that can work, huh?