---
categories:
    - World of Warcraft
author: ellen
title: Streaming
date: 2018-06-24T18:31:31+03:00
---
Somehow it's been a while again, but that's probably because it feels like not a lot has happened though that might not be quite true. I've picked up streaming as a fun little thing to do, still expanding on it and not quite sure where exactly I want to go but so far it's been fun though also frustrating at times since I'm so directionless. This has also led to me being somewhat motivated by statistics, which while they seem decent on the surface since I know many awesome people that want to support me also show that the stream isn't really interesting people since they don't stay or follow so I'm left wondering what I can do to improve there. But I guess time and experimentation will bring me somewhere, hopefully.

Streaming is also a really different experience from writing this, since firstly it's all real time and secondly I have those statistics available. For this blog, I've made the decision to not really promote or link it anywhere which naturally restricts the amount of people coming in. I also have no analytics running so I have no idea if people are reading anything I write combined with no comments. That makes it a very "putting something out into the void" experience, which is distinctly different from streaming though is the approach I took when starting the stream---since then I've expanded to people actually being able to hear me on stream along with whatever VOIP we happen to be using at the time, usually Discord but Teamspeak at times as well.

I think that history might be what also confuses me about what I want from streaming, I know I like playing around with technology and streams and video production and so on are exactly that which makes it enjoyable to me so the whole "putting it out into the void" approach should be appealing in and of itself. I also don't believe I want to start with streaming as any sort of primary income, since it seems it requires quite a different personality from what I have along with requiring quite a lot of dedication even on days one isn't really feeling like it. Simultaneosly as stated, I notice myself focusing on and following the metrics and give at least some thought to how I can improve the stream for viewers and hopefully gain some more followers potentially leading to me being able to be partnered on Twitch which would be kind of cool---50 followers being the last milestone I'm missing there. I guess this is where the whole networking thing would come in, getting to know other streamers and getting hosts and so on but that's also not something I particularily enjoy doing. This has led to me just hoping the random people stopping by due to the viewer count end up liking it and following and that isn't working very well so far. Maybe it will work better in the future, since viewers tend to bring in more viewers in kind of a positive feedback loop, but for now people don't stay or follow.

It could also just be down to setup or content of course, I got some reports that apparently the VOIP was really loud at times, so hopefully I can fix that and make it all more even---that should actually be a somewhat easy thing to fix so maybe I need to get on that since I basically know exactly what to do.

I do think I'll keep streaming though, some of my friends seem to rather enjoy being able to look at what we're doing even though it's content they themselves don't want or can't participate in at the moment so it is providing a service to them at least. And somehow it feels a bit fun having it running in the background, just from a tech enthusiast point of view as well.