---
categories:
    - World of Warcraft
author: ellen
title: Everything is Awesome
date: 2018-11-07T02:50:20+02:00
---
Kind of.
<!--more-->

So the last few months have been great and simultaneously not. Well it is a long time for everything to simply be great, so it makes sense that there have been some less great things in there I suppose.

To get more specific, we killed G'huun a few weeks ago already which was awesome. Unfortunately a day too late to make it into the top 100 for the Horde---or more specifically, to get the associated achievement since the top 100 guild killed G'huun the previous reset and we ended up extending and killing him on Wednesday. Still, the kill was awesome, we kept our integrity as it were and didn't introduce extra raid days or prolong the raids in order to try and squeeze the kill which actually makes me really happy. Now I really like the guild and the people within in general, but that is one of the things I'm I guess most proud of that the principle of raid times is held to. Sure I could manage the extra hours and would probably enjoy them as well, but there's just something cool about seeing the guild stick to its rules and still perform well.

Secondly, as noted, the guild has just been awesome. While I liked being in the old guild I *love* being in this one which is a very important distinction that does affect one's enjoyment of the game greatly. I am also fortunate in that I still get to regularily play with people from the old guild, so it's the best of both worlds in a way. There is only one slightly unfortunate part: the "dead game" meme. Now the guild in general seems to be rather meme happy which is fun, but there is this whole "dead game" meme going on partially due to the content being cleared and partially because the core systems of the game at the moment just aren't as engaging as they were in Legion. Now both of these things are very understandably frustrating people to a degree---especially the latter I think---but to me the whole meme just makes the situation worse. Not by much, mind you and I would be playing the game less at the moment even without the meme but it just kind of unecessarily reminds me of the situation we're in. At the same time, I guess it helps other people to make the situation a bit more enjoyable so there is that.

Now that specifically is the less awesome part: I'm just not feeling motivated to play that much at the moment. Now there are several factors to this, one is the azerite system feeling unrewarding meaning I'm not really participating in content that rewards azerite but one could argue that is a good thing since it's not really the sort of content I enjoy overly much---island expeditions and world quests. The other part really is that one of the players in our regular mythic+ team has been unavailable for a while which means we aren't doing as much mythic+ as before which combined with us not progressing anymore and thus clearing the raid more quickly means there's a lot less for me to do in the game. Hopefully they'll get better soon and we can get back to running some more mythic+.

Though mythic+ is actually one of the awesome things that happened recently, if a little late: we finally cleared a +15 in time. It was way later than I'd liked and we are very much behind the curve but we did it even without our full setup---which kind of makes me sad at the same time---but it does pave the way for us to get going stronger than before in the future.

And honestly, fuck the curve. We managed it with some pretty annoying affixes (fortified, quaking and bursting) and had fun doing it, that's the more important part anyway. Sure a high raider.io score is nice to look at, but considering how buggy the Blizzard leaderboards have been not registering some of our runs the experience of managing it is more important than some number at the end.

Now the reduced motivation to do things on my main has given me the opportunity to level a twink which I ended up finishing sometime early Monday morning. I ended up leveling a Monk planning to play mostly Mistweaver with a bit of Brewmaster thrown in for dungeons since I hadn't played a Monk at high level yet and it seemed to be a good filler twink for the healer roster after speaking with our guildmaster. Also I already have paladin, shaman and druid at fairly high level so leveling one of those didn't seem sensible. It's been interesting so far though I haven't really had the opportunity to heal anything "real" yet, only a +2 and +3 key which even with my at the time around 290-300 item level gear was easy since we had some other geared people in the party. I'm really worried how I'll manage my mana in raids though, which generally seems to be my biggest problem playing healer twinks---having no idea which spells to prioritise specifically in raids. Dungeons is generally pretty easy since mana mostly isn't a concern; keeping people alive is. But raid fights tend to last for a long time and trying to heal the whole raid alone generally doesn't end well unless the content is trivial to begin with.

Now I just need to gear the monk so hopefully I can sneak into a heroic raid this week. Beyond that though, getting proper gear is somewhat time-gated since I can't really properly heal a +10 key yet so I'm kind of toying with the idea of leveling a second twink if I keep having so much time available. I have always kind of liked the idea of a rogue and learning to play one would be cool, so that might be the next project. I had even created one before the monk with the plan of leveling one but having a secondary healer character just to precedence so we'll see.