---
categories:
    - World of Warcraft
author: ellen
title: Boosts and Foosts
date: 2019-05-31T15:56:33+03:00
---
So I've actually joined a boosting community recently and have been on a couple of boost runs. It seems like an appropriate way to get some extra gold to cover raiding costs as well as maybe eventually be able to afford the much sought after [longboi](https://www.wowhead.com/item=163042/reins-of-the-mighty-caravan-brutosaur). Now that latter is more of a long term goal since I don't know if I will be boosting *that* often and while the payout is good you do need to boost frequently if you want to make a lot of gold in a short period of time. It also depends on the amount of buyers per run, more buyers of course means more effective use of one's time.

It has actually been a somewhat strange experience so far even though I've only been on a couple of runs. For one, how fun it has actually been considering we are doing content that is trivial enough for us to be able to boost somewhere along half of the raid. I guess actually *having* to boost all of those people is what makes it fun, since it brings some level of challenge back to the content actually having to think a bit more what we are doing there.
<!--more-->

Complete side rant, there was one rather frustrating experience during one of the boost runs in Crucible of Storms. We were taking on a couple of more boostees than in the earlier runs and there was some uncertainty around us being able to actually make it through with so many boostees. Now we had a try and a wipe because of failed kicks on Uu'nat---I play Discipline so I can't really *react* to fails that well afterhand, I have to predict them, admittedly I could probably have reacted better and it would have been fine. However, after this a call is made by the co-leader to bring in one more damage dealer and one more healer. Now, in theory this is a fine call since it makes it more likely that we are able to manage the amount of boostees but my issue comes here: the additional damage dealer was not told to interrupt anything which was the whole reason for us just wiping and we were doing more than fine up until that point. The additional healer also just meant that there was less for us to heal per person just making it seem that the healers weren't pulling their weight. We of course easily kill the boss after that but we would have done that *anyway* if the kicks had been done properly which they were the second time around. As a consequence, we also didn't try taking more boostees in on consequent runs---though to be fair I'm not sure if there was enough interest anyway. All of that just annoyed me more than it probably should for some reason, the "lost" gold isn't that important just the complete misidentification of the issue and the overbearing response as a consequence.

Another somewhat strange and unfortunate part of the experience has been the---I guess---culture some of the players there have. Very much "let's go boys" and lots of e-peen measuring it feels like giving something of a "boys club" feel at times. Now admittedly I'm seeing this more subtly for the most part and it's probably something that they are bringing over from other communities they participate in rather than something innate for this community but it still doesn't make the envirnment feel the most welcoming to me. It also feels really strange since there is so much talk in the Code of Conduct and so on about showing a professional image to the buyers by being on time and keeping the in-game raid chat clean but I guess this same professionalism isn't expected to be extended towards other bosters.

Now as noted these are initial vibes and I haven't been on that many boost runs yet and it's probably very dependant on the leader as well as one's fellow bosters---in fact the second boost run was much better than the first though that was probably partially due to very low participation in voice chat from almost all boosters present, me included---but it still isn't really motivating me to more actively look out for additional boosting opportunities. I guess I should probably be fine if I avoid the outwardly obvious incompatible groups.

I still think I want to be doing more boosting than I have been so far, and [Uu'nat being down]({{< relref "/post/2019/uunat.md" >}}) should provide more opportunities as well as more importantly more energy to be able to do boost runs---that has actually a really interesting side effect of this progress that I haven't though much about, actually just feeling like the breaks from raiding on non-raid nights were really needed.

Speaking of progress, one unexpectedly annoying part of it has been preparing the "foosts" (feasts) for the raids. Now there is a special version of the feasts that instead of the rare fish take the crafting reagnents from Uldir however there is of course a slight problem with this: we aren't raiding Uldir anymore. There is something of a way around this, in that you can convert the Battle of Dazar'alor crafting material into the Uldir one with several different crafting professions. The problem here becomes when you want to convert 1000+ of the things it takes a lot of time even with the crafting enchantment---I think I spent 10-15 minutes converting mine. Now this doesn't need to be done that often and it has been a one time thing for me so far  but it has still been something of an unexpected and quite frankly unecessary small annoyance with regards to progress. Luckily that shouldn't be so necessary anymore since from what I hear we will be getting a new feast in the next patch anyway and I don't have that many of the materials left since we haven't been clearing Battle of Dazar'alor since we started Crucible progress. But it would just have been nice to either have the transform cast be shorter or have an option to transform several at the same time.

