---
categories:
    - World of Warcraft
author: ellen
title: Warrior
date: 2019-06-05T13:43:19+03:00
---
So with me [having changed to Horde a while ago]({{< relref "/post/2018/horde.md" >}}) I ended up leveling a new warrior, since my previous one was still on Alliance and a different server and I wanted to be able to play a tank with the guild as well as the other people I now actively play with. 

Another reason for getting back to the warrior was that it seems to have gotten some fixes since the [pre-patch]({{< relref "/post/2018/prepatch.md" >}}) where they played really terribly and for some reasons warriors have always been the tank I most like the theme of---just being badass enough to handle all the incoming punishment, well the armour helps too. They are also the "meta" tank at the moment especially for dungeons, but seeing as that probably won't be true with the next patch anymore and I'll hopefully be playing the warrior for the rest of the expansion again---as long as it continues to play fun---that didn't really factor into my decision. Generally being a good "meta" class doesn't play into my decision on whether to play something, more important is the theme and feel of the class or spec.<!--more-->

Leveling the warrior went okay, I did something unusual for me and decided to level as fury instead of my usual choice of protection---I tend to prefer to play tanks and healers over damage dealers even for leveling. This was probably a good decision since fury was a decent amount of fun---I have always liked dual wield specs---as well as having some self-heal for survivability though it did get a bit tough at times at the very late levels and there I probably should have changed to protection.

Not leveling as protection did mean something new for me however: I needed to actually get the correct weapons at max level in order to start tanking. To be fair, I wouldn't have been able to tank anything relevant *anyway* but still it was a new experience not being able to get started with my chosen spec immediately. This lead me to start gearing through world quests instead of the usual getting boosted in mythic+ by friends and guildies and it was actually somewhat of a nice experience. I'd actually done something similar not too long ago with my hunter that I leveled which is still Alliance and on another realm so I didn't really have any choices beyond just gearing myself through world quests and there as here it proved to actually be a bit of a interesting casual experience. It was also interesting to see how luck-based world quests actually are since you need to not only get something in a slot where the item level is still an upgrade but the quest also needs to be one that actually provides the highest possible item level---a good example of this is from yesterday, where I actually saw a world quest on my warrior for a piece of 355 azerite gear even though I had already been getting mostly quests for 370 azerite gear and was wearing all 370 azerite gear as well as an average item level of 380 or so. This means world quests still have to a degree the randomness of being able to actually get useful gear from them as other content just that you know beforehand if you even need to bother---expecting titanforging of course.

It was interesting to witness this in play again since I have been mostly ignoring world quests for a while since the chance for relevant gear is so low---basically on most of my characters it needs to titanforge---and the content in and of itself isn't that fun. What made it fun for a while on the warrior and hunter was the possibility to look around for new world quests and see at least one or two that gave a guaranteed upgrade and to be able to see that slow progress towards higher item level pieces after a while, still that doesn't last long and is already ending pretty much on my warrior---I very rarely now see any world quest that provides an item level upgrade and while I know that world quests can scale higher it doesn't seem like a realisitic gearing path for me anymore.

The general diversion into more casual content---leveling and world quests---has been welcome though as at the moment the general level of interest for the more interesting content doesn't seem to be that high---or maybe more the availability of the people I would like to play with---and at times it's just nice to be able to play the game at a slower pace. Maybe that's what [classic]({{< relref "/post/2018/klassisch.md" >}}) will end up being for me---the more slow paced casual diversion for the times when there is less going on in retail. I guess we'll know that in a few months when it releases though we will probably be in the middle of progress again by then.